# <a name="top"></a>Substructure
Substructure

## Papers

* [Effects of Baryons](#baryons)
* [Paper2](#paper2)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
#### <a name="baryons"></a>Effects of Baryons

<ol>
<li> "Xu, D.D., Mao, S., Cooper, A.P., et al. 2010, Substructure lensing: effects of galaxies, globular clusters and satellite streams, MNRAS, 408, 1721":http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2010MNRAS.408.1721X

Lensing flux-ratio anomalies have been frequently observed and taken
as evidence for the presence of abundant dark matter substructures in
lensing galaxies, as predicted by the cold dark matter (CDM) model of
cosmogony. In previous work, we examined the cusp-caustic relations of
the multiple images of background quasars lensed by galaxy-scale dark
matter haloes, using a suite of high-resolution N-body simulations
(the Aquarius simulations). In this work, we extend our previous
calculations to incorporate both the baryonic and diffuse dark
components in lensing haloes. We include in each lensing simulation:
(1) a satellite galaxy population derived from a semi-analytic model
applied to the Aquarius haloes; (2) an empirical Milky Way globular
cluster population and (3) satellite streams (diffuse dark component)
identified in the simulations. Accounting for these extra components,
we confirm our earlier conclusion that the abundance of intrinsic
substructures (dark or bright, bound or diffuse) is not sufficient to
explain the observed frequency of cusp-caustic violations in the
Cosmic Lens All-Sky Survey (CLASS). We conclude that the observed
effect could be the result of the small number statistics of CLASS, or
intergalactic haloes along the line of sight acting as additional
sources of lensing flux anomalies. Another possibility is that this
discrepancy signals a failure of the CDM model.

<li> item2

<li> item3

</ol>

[Back to top.](#top)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
#### <a name="paper2"></a>Paper2

Blah2

[Back to top.](#top)
